HB Talk

Talking points: 
Slide 1: 
	Intro: 
	This talk is gives you a peek into concepts of big data, data warehousing and operations on data to make better business decisions 

	My background is in data warehousing and visualization and am excited to share somethings with you 

Slide 2: 
	<I am freaking out but excited .gif>

Slide 3: 
	What is big data. 
	Companies collect tons and tons of data in their day to day operations 
	(google search, youtube videos, tweets, facebook pictures, amazon, etc). Because of the size of data, traditional databases do not work and scale well.
	Big data as a concept started because of these Internet and web scale data stores. Companies now have data in order of Petabytes!! 
	Explain GB, Terabyte, Petabyte 
		http://myrepono.com/faq/4
		https://nelsonbj.files.wordpress.com/2011/06/ic_forum_time.jpg?w=584
		https://i1.wp.com/infographiclist.files.wordpress.com/2011/09/world-of-data.jpeg
		https://media.mercola.com/imageserver/public/2009/July/peta8.gif

Slide 4: 
	Because companies have so much data, they have built systems around this to mine it and help make data driven decisions. 
	We need a way to store this much data, cleanse this data and finally query and build reports on this data. 
	This is what a typical data analytics and processing pipeline looks like 
		Image about 3 steps: 
			Storage of data 
			Processing, cleansing, aggregation of data 
			Visualization, reporting on that data 
	
Slide 5: 
	Benefits of big data processing 
	e.g: 
		Old data can be used to understand past patterns 
		Lots of data means companies have a large sample size to work off
		Future trends can be guessed by applying algorithms on data 
		Shopping and user behaviors can help targetted marketing 
		Better medical research 


Slide 4: 
	Today we are going to look into a hypothetical example of how Amazon will make smart business decisions based on shopping data collected 
	We are going to check into umbrellas bought on Amazon and see if there is a relation with the weather changes. 


Slide 5: 
	How Amazon will collect shopping data - based on transactions 
	What types of data? 
	How Amazon will now collect data from external source: weather.com 
	
Slide 6: 
	How Amazon will reject unwanted data 
	How will Amazon aggregate and combine data from weather.com based on zip code and time of shopping 

Slide 7: 
	How we can now run smart algorithms (data science, machine learning) on this data to figure out answers: 
		What season do people buy umbrellas 
		How long do people wait after first rain to buy umbrellas 
		How long do people wait before peak rainfall to buy 
		What else do same people buy in that season 
		What other zip codes have similar weather patterns 



	Datawarehousing is an idea to manage and make intelligent use of huge data. 
	Lots of new techniques are needed to manage this: 
		new database schema: star, snowflake schema 
		new database technology: NoSQL, Cassandra, MongoDB 

